STDWIN ESSENTIAL INFORMATION
****************************

[last edit: 9 February 1995]


This is Version 1.0
===================

It corrects a few small problems since the release of 0.9.9 only.

For a history of changes per release, see the file ANNOUNCE.


Getting Started
===============

Execute the following two commands:

	./configure
	make

This should build two versions of the library in Ports/alfa and
Ports/x11, and two test applications in Appls/klok and Appls/miniedit.

To try out the graphical capabilities on an X display, run
Appls/klok/klok and Appls/miniedit/miniedit.

To try out the text capabilities on a termcap-capable terminal, run
Appls/miniedit/miniedit.alfa.

To build for multiple platforms, presuming your Make program supports
VPATH, do the following on each platform:

	mkdir <platform>	# e.g. mkdir sunos4
	cd <platform>
	../configure
	make			# on IRIX, use smake (this uses VPATH)

To build on the Mac, email me for instructions.


What Is STDWIN
==============

STDWIN (STanDard Window INterface -- similar to STDIO) is a simple
windowing interface for C programs, that is implemented on various
platforms.  The "flagship" implementations support the Macintosh and
X11 windowing environments.  The emphasis is on portability between
platforms and a simple interface to the application, not on getting
the maximum performance or functionality of one particular platform.

For a longer introduction, read the (still outdated) file Doc/ABOUT.
For more information on the Macintosh version, read Ports/mac/README.
For MS-DOS, read Ports/msdos/README.


Supported Platforms
===================

Currently, programs using STDWIN can be made to run on Unix under X11,
on alphanumeric terminals (using termcap -- obviously with some loss
of functionality), on the Apple Macintosh, or on MS-DOS with a dumb
display.  Someone contributed a port to Windows but it is too
incomplete to release.  If you're interested in fixing it up, please
contact me -- the world will be grateful to you!


Copyright
=========

Copyright 1988-1995 by Stichting Mathematisch Centrum, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands.

                        All Rights Reserved

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation, and that the names of Stichting Mathematisch
Centrum or CWI not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
distribution of the software without specific, written prior permission.

STICHTING MATHEMATISCH CENTRUM DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL STICHTING MATHEMATISCH CENTRUM BE LIABLE
FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT
OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.


Where To Get STDWIN
===================

I have placed a copy of the tar image named stdwin1.0.tar.gz on the
ftp server ftp.cwi.nl in directory pub/stdwin.

Don't forget to specify binary file transfer mode when transferring
compressed or tar files!  ("type binary")


The STDWIN source tree
======================

The STDWIN tree is organized as follows.  Starting from the top of the
tree (where this README file lives), we have:

	.		Top-level directory.

	README		The file you are now reading.

	H/		Public header files of STDWIN ports and
			packages.  Stdwin applications should pass this
			directory to the compiler in a "-I" option.

	Tools/		Subroutines used by various ports and
			applications; not STDWIN-specific.
			(This has now been truncated to the bare
			minimum.)

	Gen/		(Almost) generic versions of some STDWIN
			functions, used by more than one port.  (Some
			are dummies that ignore the request or always
			fail.)

	Ports/		Source for various ports.
			Note: not all subdirectories are distributed!

	Ports/x11/	Port to X11 R4; uses Xlib only.
	Ports/alfa/	Port for alphanumeric displays using termcap/terminfo.
	Ports/vtrm/	VTRM (virtual terminal) package used by Ports/alfa.
	Ports/mac/	Apple Macintosh port (both MPW and THINK C).

	Packs/		Source for packages (libraries) on top of STDWIN.

	Packs/textedit/	Standard text-editing package.

	Appls/		Source for test programs and real applications.

	Appls/README	Read this for more information.

	Doc/		Documentation for STDWIN and packages.
			Unfortunately this is terribly out of date.

	Doc/ABOUT	Blurb to be sent to prospective users.
	Doc/paper.ms	The original paper (CWI report CS-R8817) (*troff -ms).


--Guido van Rossum, CWI, Amsterdam <mailto:Guido.van.Rossum@cwi.nl>
<http://www.cwi.nl/cwi/people/Guido.van.Rossum.html>

"Too much of a good thing always leaves one wanting less, I always
find."  --Basil Fawlty
