Building STDWIN 1.0 on the Mac
==============================

Version information
-------------------

Compiler versions:

	This release works with Symantec's Think C 6.0 or 7.0
	(upgraded from 6.0), with Metrowerks CodeWarrior 5.0, and
	perhaps also with Apple's MPW 3.2.  It should also still work
	with Think C 5.0.

System versions:

	It has been tested on System 7.1 and 7.1.1 on the 68K Mac and
	on System 7.1.2 on the PowerMac.  It should still work on
	System 6 if you substitute the file argcargv.c for
	argcargv_ae.c.  (I know, this should be done dynamically using
	Gestalt.  Unfortunately I haven't got a machine running System
	6 around to test it...)

Needed files and directories
----------------------------

Start by copying the following directories from the STDWIN
distribution to your Mac (if you like, you can copy the whole
directory tree):

	H
	Tools
	Gen
	Ports/mac
	Ports/mac_mpw (if you use MPW)
	Packs/textedit
	Appls/miniedit (for testing)

Project files for Think C and CodeWarrior
-----------------------------------------

Make two projects, stdwin.<pi> and textedit.<pi> (<pi> is the letter
pi, Option-p).  (All of STDWIN together is too big for one segment,
and the textedit module is not used by all applications.)

Turn off <MacHeaders> (Think C) or any default include file
(CodeWarrior); the sources know exactly which files to include.

Other relevant options: you can choose 4-byte ints if you like (the
applications using STDWIN must have the same setting).  Not much else
makes any difference.

In the stdwin project, add the following files:

	From Ports/mac:
		about.c
		argcargv_ae.c (use argcargv.c instead for System 6)
		caret.c
		color.c
		cursor.c
		dialog.c
		dprintf.c
		draw.c
		event.c
		fullpath.c
		menu.c
		pstring.c
		scrap.c
		scroll.c
		stdwin.c
		timer.c
	From Gen:
		wtextbreak.c
	From Tools:
		strdup.c (not if you want to link with Python)

In the textedit project, add these files:

		editwin.c
		textdbg.c
		textedit.c
		textlow.c
		wprintf.c

Makefile for MPW C
------------------

See the directory Ports/mac_mpw.  It contains an age-old Makefile.  I
haven't actually tested this.

Building
--------

Compile the sources in each project.  Don't attempt to link.

(To speed up compilation under Think C, you can rename "macwin.h" to
"macwin.c" and precompile it, placing the output in "macwin.h".  This
is completely optional and not recommended unless you have a slow
machine.)

To test, make a project miniedit.<pi> and add all sources from
Appls/miniedit.  Add the ANSI and MacTraps libraries and the
stdwin.<pi> and textedit.<pi> projects you just created.  (Probably
everything in its own segment.)  You now have a simple editor with
regular expression search facility.  Study the source to learn more
about using stdwin.

Good luck!

--Guido van Rossum, CWI, Amsterdam <mailto:Guido.van.Rossum@cwi.nl>
<http://www.cwi.nl/cwi/people/Guido.van.Rossum.html>
